Hellooo! Welcome back.
We mentioned in the last lesson that we're going
to be talking about traceroute. What is that?
Well I just wanted to finally, get the entire
picture of the Internet across and I think this
is the best way to do it.
Now if you're on a Mac you're going to press CMD
Space and look for a program that comes with your
Mac called terminal and you're going to
press Enter and you're going to get this.
So it's an application that all Macs have.
If you're on a Windows machine it's called Command
Prompt and in the exercise right after this lesson
I will show you instructions
on how to access that as well.
We're going to talk about traceroute, and if you remember
we spoke about this image of all these connected
things happening and going to the Internet backbone
and then Google.com finally sends us the files
back to our house and you can actually monitor how
that's going to work on here using traceroute.
So if we type in traceroute and on
Windows machine, it's actually 'tracert'.
But for now we'll just go traceroute and you
can request for whatever website you want.
So let's go with Google.com.
I press Enter and yep, look at that.
It gave me a whole bunch
of hops that it did.
So you can see 1 through 9 here so did 9
hopps, so that means 9 stops to this address
at 172.217.1.14
So again, that looks like the IP address.
So again let's always
test our experiments here.
If I put that in and press Enter, we should get
Google.com. let's see. Look at that; google.com!
So that's a fun little way of you
to see where your requests go.
And you can monitor, you can see all these IP addresses
are different computers, that are trying to locate
the Google servers.
So go ahead in the next section there's a little
exercise you can play around with this and
just see where all your
requests go all over the world.
I think it's very very cool.
We're going to finish up in the next section with some
fundamentals and what we can do with this knowledge
that we have, to actually become
really good web developers.
So see in the next section. Bye-bye.